A fever is a temporary increase in your body temperature, often due to an illness. Having a fever is a sign that something out of the ordinary is going on in your body.For an adult, a fever may be uncomfortable, but usually isn't a cause for concern unless it reaches 103 F (39.4 C) or higher. For infants and toddlers, a slightly elevated temperature may indicate a serious infection.Fevers generally go away within a few days. A number of over-the-counter medications lower a fever, but sometimes it's better left untreated. Fever seems to play a key role in helping your body fight off a number of infections.You have a fever when your temperature rises above its normal range. What's normal for you may be a little higher or lower than the average normal temperature of 98.6 F (37 C).Depending on what's causing your fever, additional fever signs and symptoms may include Sweating, Chills and shivering, Headache, Muscle aches, Loss of appetite, Dehydration, General weakness.
Children between the ages of 6 months and 5 years might experience febrile seizures. About a third of the children who have one febrile seizure will have another one, most commonly within the next 12 months.To take a temperature, you can choose from several types of thermometers, including oral, rectal, ear (tympanic) and forehead (temporal artery) thermometers.Oral and rectal thermometers generally provide the most ccurate measurement of core body temperature. Ear or forehead thermometers, although convenient, provide less accurate temperature measurements.In infants, doctors generally recommend taking a temperature with a rectal thermometer.When reporting a temperature to your or your child's doctor, give the reading and explain how the temperature was taken.Fever occurs when an area in your brain called the hypothalamus (hi-poe-THAL-uh-muhs) — also known as your body's "thermostat" — shifts the set point of your normal body temperature upward. When this happens, you may feel chilled and add layers of 
clotng or wrap up in a blanket, or you may shiver to generate more body heat, eventually resulting in an elevated body temperature.Normal body temperature varies throughout the day — it's lower in the morning and higher in the late afternoon and evening. Although most people consider 98.6 F (37 C) normal, your body temperature can vary by a degree or more — from about 97 F (36.1 C) to 99 F (37.2 C) — and still be considered normal.